---
layout: post
title: The Floss
---
##The Maiden
So Saturday I got around to maidening my new Floss 2 build; the weather finally cleared up enough and there was actually sunlight - this dark at 4:30 stuff is nonsense for doing anything outdoors after work.

The initial flight was pretty rough.

One of the main parks I enjoy flying at has a lot of large pine trees and at 1pm they cast a dramatically long and wide shadow across the park. 
This caused the camera to lose its mind and transition me from night to day and back rapidly, making differentiating any major object rather difficult. 

I persevered and pushed through the pack, finding a couple sections of park predominately in the sun. 

The quad felt weird. Coming from my Chameleon, the Floss 2's stretch X design felt very alien. I brought it in for a landing, warning Cory (friend) and Luke (brother) to watch out, "I can't see very well over here".

Having wired up the camera control pad to my FC, I attempted to get into the camera menu. Right Yaw, nothing. Right Yaw, nothing. _Very carefully set mid throttle_, Right Yaw, nothing. 

"Huh, camera control isn't working". Luke, who had also wired it into his identical FC comes over saying "Let me plug in an see if mine is working".

Ahhh, same frequency! Luke unplugs and I tell him no biggy, I'll just change to my normal R7 frequency through smart audio.

Open up the Betaflight OSD and move over to the SA (Smart Audio) tab. Nothing. SA is not working.

I unplug and tell Luke to boot up his quad and check if his Smart Audio is working. He does, and it is not. 

Both of our rigs are identical minus the frame, so we determine to look at why the camera control and SA features are not working after we get home.

Luke maidens his new Skyline Razor frame and it flies excellently. As an aside, my tolerance for nonsense camera's apparently did not extend to him, as his looked equally awful to me, but didn't seem to phase him at all.
He suspects its due to his "garbage" HS1177 in his Martian.

We burn through the rest of our packs on our freestyle rigs and roll out, I'm a little bummed the Floss has been sort of "eh" and both of us are annoyed that we've got both Camera Control and SA issues.

I've forgotten to mention that neither of our current draw OSD elements are working, and we're bummed about that.

Heading home from flying with _three_ distinct software/hardware issues is really a bummer, but that's OK, we've got a lot of afternoon to mess around with the rigs and fix the issues.

##The Tinkering
OK, three issues to explore, where to start?

For me, the biggest and most immediate issue was the lack of vision; Lets start with the camera control problems.

###Fixing the Camera Control
I boot up Betaflight and load up the CLI, "dump" the data and start looking around. Sure enough, there are all the camera control settings I had entered a few days prior (I don't know why I didn't test CC at the time, I will in the future).

Huh, wonder if I've entered something incorrectly? 

Grab Luke's rig and plug it in. We have the same exact build, same FC, same camera, same esc, etc. His CLI dump indicates that the exact same settings have been entered (turns out the manual's commands are the configured defaults for the Fortini).

Guess I'll find the [wiki page for CC](https://github.com/betaflight/betaflight/wiki/FPV-Camera-Control-(Joystick-Emulation)) and take a read. 

What do you know? Half way down the page I find this line pertaining directly to runcam sparrows: `camera_control_internal_resistance = 99` - this may be the first time I have found actual help in the betaflight wiki, thank you kind contributor!

Back into the CLI, punch in `camera_control_internal_resistance = 99`, save, reboot, plug a battery in.... Right Yaw? Boom, camera menu! Yahtah!! 1 of 3 issues fixed.

###Current Draw Sensor
OK, next most important thing: why is my OSD displaying a constant 30amp current draw?

Into the battery tab in BF I go, weird... settings look totally normal. 

"Wonder if the scale is off", as I enter 200 into the current scale. Vhoom, amp demand claims to now be 68 amps. 

Huh, wrong way...

800 into the scale, 20 amps... heading the right way, but there's no way that's correct.

I put it back to 400 and go film some dvr documenting what is happening and post a question on the Betaflight FB group - no response. Guess I'll talk to the manufacturer of the Fortini board.

Open up a contact request with Furious FPV and decide having current draw on my OSD is no big deal and that I should move on. By now it's getting sort of dark out and I'm not really able to test with props on any more any ways.

The issue nagged at me all night and I tried a handful of various things to try and get it working to no avail. 

I did end up reading through the code for the voltage sensor and discovered that the amperage calculation is a non-linear inversion of the voltage, which would explain how halving the value more than doubled, and doubling didn't quite half.

Turns out I can read C a lot better than I thought, but man do I hate digging through code on GitHub directly - I need to find a good IDE for C and pull Betaflight.

Middle of the night I wake up and am thinking about this issue, that really is how bad it was nagging me. "I don't think this FC has a shunt resistor on it..." my half asleep brain reasons out, guess I'll look into that in the morning.

In the morning, I check my email and WOW, Furious FPV has gotten back to me! Guess what they said? 

`The Fortini F4 OSD is not able to do current draw sensing on its on and must have sensor information given to it from the PDB`

Boom, theory confirmed and disappointment expounded, as the Spedix IS30 doesn't have a current sensor on it. Oh well, live and learn, next build look for a 4 in 1 with current sensing.

1 of 3 issues fixed.

###Smart Audio
So Luke and I both decided to give the RDQ Mach2 VTX a go with this build, it looked super solid, feature rich, and was on sale.

Turns out the SA protocol they built into their board isn't accurate, and won't work in BF 3.3. Bummer.

It also turns out... that this batch doesn't want to work for me either.

The Fortini F4 has 5 UARTS, one is used by the usb, one is inverted for SBUS, leaving TX/RX1, TX/RX4, and TX/RX6. The instructions say to wire SA/Tramp to TX4, OK, no problem.

Betaflight is set to run SA on UART4, nothing interesting going on with that (also not my first set up with SA).

Nothing. Just dashes of sadness in the OSD.

Pop the cable off TX4 and onto TX1, nothing.

Cable off TX1 onto TX6, also nothing. 

Back to the CLI to make sure none of the UARTs are inverted that shouldn't be, nothing. "Huh".

Yank the Mach2 out of the Floss build and hook it up to my CLRacing F4"S" - which is working as expected with a TBS Unify Race.

It ALSO didn't work, so at this point I'm pointing a finger at the Mach2.

The diagnostics in the OSD for SA, as well as the code for SA show that they auto search through the Baud channels 4800-4950, 50 at a time. This is where I suspect the issue lies.

Oh well, for the time being, no smart audio. Hardly the end of the world.

1 of 3 issues fixed.

###Wrap Up
Well, three issues present at the start, and now we have
* one completely fixed
* one miss-understood and sort of "fixed"
* one completely still not working

But, it turns out the simplest to fix was also the biggest impact on my experience.

We took the new builds out again the following day and with a working camera, I was able to rip the park as I'm used to.

_Man_, this build RIPS. I truly love the stretch X now, and the Floss feels really good in the air. I think the 5046 cyclones are too little prop on these 2307-2522 Hyperlite motors, and after throwing some 5053 Gatebreakers on it... watch out!

Thanks for reading my ramblings, cheers.
